# Practice questions, 4th December 2024

[Iris](iris-machinelearning.png#center){width="516"}

Today we wish to study the `iris` data set. The `iris` data set is one of R built-in data sets. Before you start studying the `iris` data set, you should load the `tidyverse`, using the command

```         
library(tidyverse)
```

Once you have loaded the tidyverse, transform the `iris` data set into a tibble by typing

```         
iris <- as_tibble(iris)
```

Then use the functions `glimpse()` and `summary()` to have an initial look at the data set. You may also wish to call the help function, to read more about this data set. This can be done with `?iris`. You may also wish to look at the [Iris](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iris_flower_data_set) data set page on Wikipedia. (Yes! This is such an important data set to deserve a page on Wikipedia.)

**Question.** How many species of iris are there in the data set?

Now use the knowledge you have previously acquired with R to respond to the following questions:

1.  Are the species balanced in the data set? Show a suitable diagram that responds to the question.
2.  Draw a box-plots of Species against petal and sepal length, and formulate a hypothesis regarding their relationship.
3.  Draw a scatter graph of the sepal length against the petal length. Can you spot any *cluster* present? How many clusters can you see?
4.  To investigate the number of clusters you have found, add a suitable colour aesthetics to the map.

If you wish to challenge yourself a bit more, try to find the average of petal and sepal length and width by species. What can you say about these numbers?

**Hint.** To calculate the average of one (or more) columns, you should use `group_by()` and `summarise()`. You should use the pipe function `|>` to concatenate commands. To make your code more compact, inside `summarise()` you may wish to use the code `across(everything(), ...)` — this code tells summarise to run through all the columns and to apply the function in `...`
